Queue:

1. Queue is a linear data structure in which removal of elements are done in the same order they were inserted i.e., the element will be removed first which is inserted first.
2. A queue has two ends which are front end and rear end.
3. Insertion is take place at rear end and deletion is take place at front end.
4. Queue is also known as first in first out (FIFO) data structure.
5. Circular queue is a type of array implementation of queue where the array is imagined as a circular data structure i.e. the next subscript value of the last subscript value of the array is ‘0’ .

Priority Queue:
1. Priority queue is a type of queue where the deletion of elements is depended upon some priority value associated with each element in the queue. 
In case of max-priority queue, the element has highest priority value will be deleted first and in case of min-priority queue the element has lowest priority value will be deleted first.

ARRAY IMPLEMENTATION OF QUEUE:
1. In array implementation, an array and two variables, ‘front’ and ‘rear’ is used.
2. ‘front’ and ‘rear’ are initialized with value ‘–1’.
3. To insert an element, at first the value of ‘rear’ is incremented if it is possible and then the element is input into the array at the subscript value equal to the value of ‘rear’.
4. The overflow condition for array implementation is “‘front’ is equal to 0 AND ‘rear’ is equal to (size of the array) –1’’.
5. In case of deletion operation ‘front’ variable is incremented by one if it is not equal to ‘–1’.
6. The underflow condition is “‘front’ is equal to ‘–1’’’.

APPLICATION OF QUEUE
There are several applications of queue available in computer
system. Some of these are given as follows.
1. In printers, queue is used to print the different files.
2. Queue is used to access files from a disk system.
3. In a multiprogramming environment, queue is used for CPU
scheduling or job scheduling of operating system.
4. In any type of ticket reservation system, queue can be used for
issuing tickets to the customers.
5. Queue is used in the implementation of breadth first traversal of
graph.
6. Queue is used in many other real world systems which are used
in some scientific research, military operations etc.